There is a place, beneath those ancient ruins, in the moor, that calls out to the boldest among them... "We are the Flame!" they cry, "And Darkness fears us!" They descend, spurred on by fantasies of riches and redemption, to lay bare whatever blasphemous abnormality may slumber restlessly in that unholy abyss... But Darkness is insidious. Terror and Madness can find cracks in the sturdiest of armors, the most resolute of minds... And below, in that limitless chasm of Chaos, they will realize the truth of it. "We are not the Flame!" they will cry out, "We are but moths and we are DOOMED!" And their screams will echo amidst the pitiless cyclopean stones... Of the Darkest Dungeon.
Ruin has come to our family. You remember our venerable house, opulent and imperial. Gazing proudly from its stoic perch above the moor. I lived all my years in that ancient, rumor-shadowed manor. Fattened by decadence and luxury. And yet, I began to tire of conventional extravagance. Singular, unsettling tales suggested the mansion itself was a gateway to some fabulous and unnamable power. With relic and ritual, I bent every effort towards the excavation and recovery of those long-buried secrets, exhausting what remained of our family fortune on swarthy workmen and sturdy shovels. At last, in the salt-soaked crags beneath the lowest foundations we unearthed that damnable portal of antediluvian evil. Our every step unsettled the ancient earth but we were in a realm of death and madness! In the end, I alone fled laughing and wailing through those blackened arcades of antiquity. Until consciousness failed me. You remember our venerable house, opulent and imperial. It is a festering abomination! I beg you, return home, claim your birthright, and deliver our family from the ravenous clutching shadows of the Darkest Dungeon.
You will arrive along the old road. It winds with a troubling, serpent-like suggestion through the corrupted countryside. Leading only, I fear, to ever more tenebrous places. There is a sickness in the ancient pitted cobbles of the old road and on its writhing path you will face viciousness, violence, and perhaps other damnably transcendent terrors. So steel yourself and remember: there can be no bravery without madness. The old road will take you to hell, but in that gaping abyss we will find our redemption.
Brigands have run of these lanes. Keep to the side path; the Hamlet is just ahead.
Dispatch this thug in brutal fashion, that all may hear of your arrival!
Leave nothing unchecked, there is much to be found in forgotten places.
An ambush! Send these vermin a message: the rightful owner has returned, and their kind is no longer welcome.
Welcome home, such as it is. This squalid hamlet, these corrupted lands, they are yours now, and you are bound to them.
This sprawling estate, a Mecca of madness and morbidity. Your work begins...
The cost of preparedness - measured now in gold, later in blood.
Women and men; soldiers and outlaws; fools and corpses. All will find their way to us now that the road is clear.
Fresh kegs, cards, and curtained rooms promise solace to the weary and the broken alike.
The cobwebs have been dusted, the pews set straight. The Abbey calls to the faithful...
The bellows blast once again! The forge stands ready to make weapons of war.
Make no mistake, we will face ever greater threats. Our soldiers must be ready.
At home in wild places, she is a stalwart survivor, and a strict instructor.
Trinkets and charms, gathered from all the forgotten corners of the earth...
Most will end up here, covered in the poisoned earth, awaiting merciful oblivion.
In time, you will know the tragic extent of my failings...
I remember days when the sun shone, and laughter could be heard from the tavern.
I was lord of this place, before the crows and rats made it their domain.
In truth I cannot tell how much time has passed since I sent that letter.
Once, our estate was the envy of this land...
Our family name, once so well regarded, is now barely whispered aloud by decent folk.
I see something long-absent in the sunken faces of passersby - a glimmer of hope.
The poor Caretaker, I fear his long-standing duties here have ...affected him.
The degeneracy of the Hamlet is nothing, I fear, when compared to the condition of surrounding acres.
My obsession caused this great foulness, and it is shameful that I must rely upon you to set it right.
I can still see their angry faces as they stormed the manor, but I was dead before they found me, and the letter was on its way.
There is a great horror beneath the manor: a Crawling Chaos that must be destroyed!
Curiosity, interest, and obsession — mile markers on my road to damnation.
Trouble yourself not with the cost of this crusade - its noble end affords you broad tolerance in your choice of means.
Let me share with you the terrible wonders I have come to know...
You answered the letter — now like me, you are part of this place.
We dug for months, years — an eternity. And we were rewarded with madness.
The plume and the pistol — a fitting end to my folly, and a curse upon us all.
Can you feel it? The walls between the sane world and that unplumbed dimension of delirium are tenuously thin here...
All my life, I could feel an insistent gnawing in the back of my mind. It was a yearning, a thirst for discovery that could be neither numbed, nor sated.
An eternity of futile struggle — a penance for my unspeakable transgressions.
All the decadent horrors I have seen pale in comparison with that final, crowning thing. I could not look, nor could I look away!
Great heroes can be found even here, in the mud and rain.
More arrive, foolishly seeking fortune and glory in this domain of the damned.
Word is travelling. Ambition is stirring in distant cities. We can use this.
With enough ale, maybe they can be inured against the horrors below.
All manner of diversion and dalliance await those who cross the threshold with coin in hand.
Strong drink, a game of chance, and companionship. The rush of life.
A little hope, however desperate, is never without worth.
Gilded icons and dogmatic rituals... for some, a tonic against the bloodshed.
A man in a robe, claiming communion with the divine. Madness.
In the end, every plan relies upon a strong arm, and tempered steel.
A sharper sword, a stronger shield. Anything to prolong a soldier's life.
Fan the flames! Mold the metal! We are raising an army!
Some may fall, but their knowledge lives on.
Every creature has a weakness. The wise hero trains for what she will face.
A strict regimen is paramount, if one is to master the brutal arithmetic of combat.
Alone in the woods or tunnels, survival is the same. Prepare, persist, and overcome.
Success depends on survival.
They must learn more than brutal bloodletting — they must learn to survive!
Rarities and curios, sold at a profit, of course.
Idol, amulet, or lucky charm — the simplest object can be a talisman against evil.
An increasing stockpile of curious trinkets, gathered from forbidden places.
The front line of this war is not in the dungeon, but rather, inside the mind.
Experimental techniques and tonics can overcome things a sharpened sword cannot.
Curious methodologies and apparatus can calm even the most tormented soul.
Tortured and reclusive... this man is more dangerous than he seems...
She searches where others will not go... and sees what others will not see.
Shoot, bandage and pillage: the dancing steps of war.
The thrill of the hunt... The promise of payment...
A mighty sword-arm anchored by a holy purpose. A zealous warrior.
To those with a keen eye, gold gleams like a dagger's point.
Barbaric rage and unrelenting savagery make for a powerful ally.
Elusive, evasive, persistent. Righteous traits for a rogue.
A lawman and his faithful beast. A bond forged by battle and bloodshed.
He will be laughing still... at the end.
This man understands that adversity and existence are one and the same.
The raw strength of youth may be spent, but his eyes hold the secrets of a hundred campaigns.
To fight the abyss, one must know it...
What better laboratory than the blood-soaked battlefield?
A sister of battle. Pious and unrelenting.
A champion markswoman keen for a new kind of challenge.
This one has become vestigial, useless.
Suffer not the lame horse... nor the broken man.
Another soul battered and broken, cast aside like a spent torch.
Those without the stomach for this place must move on.
It is done. Turn yourself now to the conditions of those poor devils who remain.
Send this one to journey elsewhere, for we have need of sterner stock.
Slumped shoulders, wild eyes, and a stumbling gait - this one is no more good to us.
The task ahead is terrible, and weakness cannot be tolerated.
Excavations beneath the manor were well underway, when a particular ragged indigent arrived in the hamlet. This filthy, toothless miscreant boasted an uncanny knowledge of my ambitions and prognosticated publicly that left unchecked, I would soon unleash doom upon the world.
This raving creature had to be silenced, but doing so proved maddeningly impossible. How had he survived the stockades, the icy waters, and the knives I delivered so enthusiastically into his back? How had he returned time and time again to rouse the townsfolk with his wild speculations and prophecies?
Finally, resigned to his uncommon corporeal resilience, I lured him to the dig. There, I showed him the Thing, and detailed the full extent of my plans. Triumphantly, I watched as he tore his eyes from their sockets, and ran shrieking into the shadows - wailing maniacally that the end was upon us all.
Mastery over life and death was chief among my early pursuits. I began in humility, but my ambition was limitless. Who could have divined the prophetic import of something as unremarkable as a twitch in the leg of a dead rat?
I entertained a delegation of experts from overseas, eager to plumb the depths of their knowledge and share with them certain techniques and alchemical processes I had found to yield wondrous and terrifying results. Having learned all I could from my visiting guests, I murdered them as they slept.
I brought my colleagues back with much of their intellect intact, a remarkable triumph for even the most experienced necromancer. Freed from the trappings of their humanity, they plied their terrible trade anew - the dead reviving the dead, on and on down the years... forever.
I had collected many rare and elusive volumes on ancient herbal properties, and was set to enjoy several weeks immersed in comfortable study. My work was interrupted, however, by a singularly striking young woman who insisted on repeated calls to the house.
Her knowledge of horticulturalism, and its role in various arcane practices impressed me greatly. My licentious impulse gave way to a genuine, professional respect, and together, we began to plant, harvest, and brew.
As time wore on, her wild policy of self-experimentation grew intolerable. She quaffed all manner of strange fungii, herbs and concoctions, intent on gaining some insight into the horror we both knew to be growing beneath us. The change in her was appalling, and, no longer able to stomach it, I sent her to live in the Weald, where her wildness would be welcomed.
Simple folk are by their nature loquacious, and the denizens of the Hamlet were no exception. It was not long before rumors of my morbid genius and secretive excavations began to fuel local legend. In the face of my increasingly egregious flaunting of public taboos, awe turned to ire, and demonstrations were held in the town square.
The wild whispers of heresy roused the rabble to violent action. Such was the general air of rebellion that even my generous offer of gold to the local constabulary was rebuffed! To reassert my rule, I sought out unscrupulous men skilled in the application of force. Tight-lipped and terrifying, these mercenaries brought with them a war machine of terrible implication.
Eager to end the tiresome domestic distraction, I instructed my newly formed militia of hardened bandits, brigands and killers to go forth and do their work. Compliance and order were restored, and the noisome population of the Hamlet was culled to more... manageable numbers.
The ways and rituals of blood sacrifice are difficult to master. Those from beyond require a physical vessel if they are to make the crossing into our reality. The timing of the chants is imperative - without the proper utterances at precise intervals, the process can fail spectacularly.
My first attempts at summoning were crude and the results, disappointing. I soon found however, that the type and condition of the host's meat was a critical factor. The best results came from pigs, whose flesh is most like that of man.
The Great Thing I had managed to bring through was brutish and stupid. Moreover, it required prodigious amounts of meat to sustain itself, but this was only a trifling concern – after all, I had a village full of it.
My zeal for blood rituals and summoning rites had begun to ebb as each attempt invariably brought only failure, and disappointment. Progress was halting, and the rapidly accumulating surplus of wasted flesh had become... burdensome.
I could not store such a prodigious amount of offal, nor could I rid myself of it easily, possessed as it was by unnameable things from outer spheres. When excavations beneath the Manor broke through into an ancient network of aqueducts and tunnels, I knew I had found a solution to the problem of disposal.
The spasmodically squirming, braying, and snorting half-corpses were heaped each upon the other until at last I was rid of them. The Warrens became a landfill of snout and hoof, gristle and bone – a mountainous, twitching mass of misshapen flesh fusing itself together in the darkness.
My lofty position wasn't always accompanied by the fear of office, and there was a time I could walk the streets or raise a glass in the tavern without concern for molestation. Faithful as the tide, one precocious village waif made it her hobby to shadow my every errand. It was charming then, troublesome later.
In financial desperation, I struck a bargain with the ancient things that surfaced in search of sacrifice when the moon was right. Their price was the delivery of an obscure idol and one other item of more troubling portent. The pact struck, my newfound accomplices slipped silently beneath the brackish water. A fearful stirring at the edge of the torchlight betrayed a familiar witness, and gifted me with malign inspiration.
Under the blood moon, I lured my wide-eyed prey to the pier’s edge. Before she could properly appreciate her position, I clamped on a manacle, chaining her to the leering idol. A small push was sufficient to send both into the icy waters. And when at length the tide receded, jewels of the most magnificent grandeur lay scattered upon the shore.
Prying eyes had become a nuisance along the Old Road, and so I undertook to receive my most curious deliveries by way of marine shipments. A sheltered jetty was accessible by a narrow stone stair off the back of the manor, and a discreet system of pulleys could hoist even the heaviest prizes up the rock face from a securely tied dinghy below.
I employed a crew of particularly unsavory mariners, who, for a time, sailed the four corners at my behest - retrieving many valuable artifacts, relics and rare texts. Predictably, they increased their tariffs to counter my intense stipulations of secrecy. Such resources had long been exhausted, of course, and so I prepared an... alternative payment.
While the greedy dogs slept off their revelry, I hexed their anchor with every twisted incantation I could muster - imbuing it with the weight of my ambition, and my contempt for their crude extortion. At the witching hour, the anchor pulled with preternatural force, dragging craft and crew down into the depths. They must have cried out, but no sound escaped the swirling black waters...
Pace out the halls of your lineage, once familiar, now foreign.
The fiends must be driven back, and what better place to begin than the seat of our noble line?
Can the defiled be consecrated? Can the fallen find rest?
There is power in symbols. Collect the scattered scraps of faith and give comfort to the masses.
A devil walks these halls... only the mad or the desperate go in search of him.
The echoes of his mindless tittering reverberate maddeningly...
I knew all these paths once; now they are as twisted as my own ambitions.
Corruption has soaked the soil, sapping all good life from these groves - let us burn out this evil.
Excise the fungal tumors and the land may yet live.
Our land is remote and unneighbored. Every lost resource must be recovered.
There is method in the wild corruption here. It bears a form both wretched and malevolent.
The smell of sulfur and gunpowder hangs in the air, the war machine is close.
To prosecute our war against the Swine, we must first scout their squalid homes.
They breed quickly down there in the dark, but perhaps we can slay them even faster.
The Swine draw power from their horrid markings and crude idols - tear them down!
Even the fiercest beast will lay down when it has not eaten. Steal their food.
A nameless abomination, a testament to my failures - it must be destroyed!
The thing is more terrible than I can describe - an incoherent jumble of organ, sinew and bone.
The smell of rotting fish is almost unbearable...
These salt-soaked caverns are teeming with pelagic nightmares - they must be flushed out!
The flopping, fish-like things abhore the warding sigils.  Let us claim this place anew!
Recover these lost shipments of rarities, that we may prevent them from falling into even less scrupulous hands...
I always wondered what became of the unfortunate little waif...
The poor devils, chained and drowning for eternity...
The shifted corridors and sloped vaults of our ancestry are beginning to feel familiar.
The great Ruins belong to us, and we will find whatever secrets they hold.
More bones returned to rest. Devils remanded to their abyss.
Room by room, hall by hall, we reclaim what is ours.
This day belongs to the Light!
Beacons in the darkness, stars in the emptiness of the void.
Tokens of hope, recovered from the encroaching dark.
The Abbot will be grateful - the trappings of his faith have been restored.
Did he foresee his own demise? I care not, so long as he remains dead.
In life, his claims to precognition were dubious at best, in death, they are ridiculous.
Even reanimated bones can fall; even the dead can die again.
With no living sinew to actuate them, will these walking bones finally fail?
Every cleared path and charted route reduces the isolation of our troubled estate.
Paths and roads bring soldiers and supplies, let them arrive unharried!
Driving out corruption is an endless battle, but one that must be fought.
The agents of pestilence will yet be driven from our woods!
Good fortune and hard work may yet arrest this plague.
Disinfection, at last.
These medicines will prevent the outbreak of epidemic at our struggling Hamlet.
These tonics and herbs will stave off infection and neutralize contagion.
The wood is still poisoned. The way is still blocked. But less people will be eaten.
Leave her corpse to rot, consumed by the spores she spawned.
A corpse of twisted metal and splintered wood - at home amongst the headstones.
The Brigands are undone - our family crest is once again a symbol of strength!
The swinefolk's labyrinth may yet prove to be navigable.
The twisting tunnels seem a little less ...impossible.
Some experiments should have never happened. You are doing just work, ending them.
Their squeals fade, their confidence is shaken!
Ha ha ha! Let those dirty beasts worship the mud now!
Robbed of their writings, the Swine will grow ever more ignorant - if such a thing were possible.
These foodstuffs yield double benefit: the town may eat, and the Swine will not.
Our supplies are replenished, the soldiers will feast tonight.
It is as grotesque in death as it was in life...
Its destruction is a small consolation, given the implications of its terrible existence.
How many rats will it take to gnaw through a tonne of putrid flesh?
The thing is even more horrible in death. Liquefaction cannot come soon enough.
Despite its morbid aspect, this twisted, cavernous maze seems almost traversable.
We will find all manner of great and terrible things in this watery tomb...
The pungent odour abates! The things are driven back, for a time.
At last, wholesome marine life can flourish - if indeed there is such a thing.
Hideous matriarch, vile queen of the aphotic depths - she has no place in the sane world!
Seafaring trade, the lifeblood of any port, can resume again now that the routes are safe.
Finally, a sailor's death for captain and crew. Fitting.
They are cursed to float forever, deep in the swirling blackness, far beyond the light's reach.
A setback, but not the end of things!
Wounds to be tended; lessons to be learned.
Regroup. Reassemble. Evil is timeless, after all.
Failure tests the mettle of heart, brain, and body.
You will endure this loss, and learn from it.
You cannot learn a thing you think you know...
We fall so that we may learn to pick ourselves up once again.
Do not ruminate on this fleeting failure - the campaign is long, and victory will come.
Where there is no peril in the task, there can be no glory in its accomplishment.
Ignorance of your enemy and of yourself will invariably lead to defeat.
Great adversity has a beauty - it is the fire that tempers.
Towering, fierce, terrible. Nightmare made material!
The madman hides there, behind the pews, spouting his mindless drivel!
Twisted and maniacal - a slathering testament to the powers of corruption!
A marvel of technology - an engine of destruction!
It is a travesty - a blundering mountain of hatred and rage.
Squirming, contorting and ever-expanding...this horror must be unmade!
The aquatic devils have remade the poor girl in their image!  She is their queen, and their slave!
Even in death, the captain shouts his orders, and the crew obeys...
Ha! The poor fool still stands, battered and broken as his precious mill.
A lifetime of pious toil, an eternity of suffering.
Fitting, that he find his rest upon the dirt he harrowed so fruitlessly.
Nothing lives for long on these barren fields.
Witness the wondrous fury of the Stars!
A star-spawned horror rattles its crystalline cage!
Shattered and unmade! Or, perhaps, reborn?
It will live again in another time, another place.
Who could fathom the hateful scorn of the swirling stars!
The twisted faces of the damned, piled high and cloaked in malice!
The sparkling eyes of youth - twisted and made merciless!
As the ghoulish collection scatters, the rats prepare to feast.
A predator is often blind to its own peril.
Behold the infinite malignity of the stars!
A star-spawned horror!
The space between worlds is no place for mortal men.
It could be dismissed as a fever dream, if not for the corpses.
A denizen of unconscionable alienage.
A shard of alien malignity!
A lurching composition of otherworldly death!
A shuddering crystalline bulk!
Born of the void, it dies in the Earth!
Banished in the void!
It came from the stars, let it return to them.
The match is struck. A blazing star is born!
The way is lit. The path is clear. We require only the strength to follow it.
In radiance may we find victory.
As the light gains purchase, spirits are lifted and purpose is made clear.
The light, the promise of safety!
The darkness holds much worse than mere trickery and bogeymen.
Darkness closes in, haunting the hearts of men.
Terrors may indeed stalk these shadows, but yonder – a glint of gold."
Secrets and wonders can be found in the most tenebrous corners of this place.
And now... the darkness holds dominion – black as death.
Glittering gold, trinkets and baubles - paid for in blood.
If only treasure could staunch the flow of otherworldly corruption...
Finding the stuff is only the first test - now it must be carried home.
Packs laden with loot are often low on supplies.
Wealth beyond measure, awarded to the brave and the foolhardy alike.
A fortune - waiting to be spent.
A handsome reward for a task well performed.
Circled in the dark, the battle may yet be won.
A spark without kindling is a goal without hope.
Gathered close in tenuous firelight, and uneasy companionship.
A moment of respite. A chance to steel oneself against the coming horrors.
Huddled together, furtive and vulnerable. Rats in a maze.
Cruel machinations spring to life with a singular purpose!
Curious is the trap-maker's art... his efficacy unwitnessed by his own eyes.
Mechanical hazards, possessed by evil intent.
Ambushed by foul invention!
Ancient traps lie in wait, unsprung and thirsting for blood.
Carelessness will find no clemency in this place!
Watch your step.
Mind that such missteps are the exception, and not the rule.
Even the cold stone seems bent on preventing passage.
Such blockages are unsurprising – these tunnels predate even the earliest settlers.
Nature herself - a victim to this spreading corruption: malformed with misintent.
Another mariner... Another misfortune.
Without tools of iron, you must rely on flesh and indefatigable purpose.
Gnawing hunger sets in, turning the body against itself, weakening the mind…
To fall for such a little thing... a bite of bread...
Packs full of steel and war, but nary a thought given to the plow.
No force of will can overcome a failing body.
The requirements of survival cannot be met on an empty stomach.
Soothed, sedated.
A momentary abatement...
The wounds of war can be healed, but never hidden.
Compassion is a rarity in the fevered pitch of battle.
Surgical precision!
Vigor is restored!
The blood pumps, the limbs obey!
The flesh is knit!
Patched up, if only to bleed again.
Death cannot be escaped! But it can be postponed.
A death denied for now.
Death is patient, it will wait.
As the fiend falls, a faint hope blossoms.
Confidence surges as the enemy crumbles!
Press this advantage, give them no quarter!
Their formation is broken - maintain the offensive.
Continue the onslaught! Destroy. Them. All.
Executed with impunity!
Another abomination cleansed from our lands.
Begone, fiend!
Back to the pit!
Another one falls!
Decimated!
Obliterated!
Destroyed!
Eradicated!
Annihilated!
Prodigious size alone does not dissuade the sharpened blade.
Their cursed champion falls!
Monstrous size has no intrinsic merit, unless inordinate exsanguination be considered a virtue.
The bigger the beast, the greater the glory.
A victory - perhaps a turning point.
A death by inches...
Great is the weapon that cuts on its own!
Slowly, gently, this is how a life is taken...
The slow death - unforeseen, unforgiving.
A decisive pummelling!
A powerful blow!
A devastating blow!
Impressive!
The ground quakes!
A singular strike!
Well struck!
Precision and power!
Masterfully executed!
How quickly the tide turns!
Mortality clarified in a single strike!
Grievous injury, palpable fear...
Such a terrible assault cannot be left unanswered!
Death waits for the slightest lapse in concentration.
Exposed to a killing blow!
Ringing ears, blurred vision - the end approaches...
Dazed, reeling, about to break...
Unnerved, unbalanced...
A dizzying blow to body and brain!
Weakened!
Diminished!
The will to fight falters!
Confusion, nerves, and panic!
Gnawing uncertainty - the birthplace of dread.
Festering fear consumes the mind!
The horror...
The abyss returns even the boldest gaze.
The blood quickens!
A brilliant confluence of skill and purpose!
A time to perform beyond one's limits!
Inspiration and improvement!
Perched at the very precipice of oblivion...
A hand-breadth from becoming unwound...
Teetering on the brink, facing the abyss...
And now the true test... hold fast, or expire?
As life ebbs, terrible vistas of emptiness reveal themselves.
Survival is a tenuous proposition in this sprawling tomb.
More blood soaks the soil, feeding the evil therein.
Another life wasted in the pursuit of glory and gold.
This is no place for the weak, or the foolhardy.
This is no place for the weak, or foolhardy.
More dust, more ashes, more disappointment.
These nightmarish creatures can be felled! They can be beaten!
Seize this momentum! Push on to the task's end!
This expedition, at least, promises success.
As victories mount, so too will resistance.
Success so clearly in view... or is it merely a trick of the light?
Remind yourself that overconfidence is a slow and insidious killer.
A trifling victory, but a victory nonetheless.
Be wary - triumphant pride precipitates a dizzying fall...
Ghoulish horrors - brought low and driven into the mud!
Impressive haul! If you value such things.
Ornaments neatly ordered, lovingly admired.
Such a burden of finery risks life and limb.
A full pack often attracts unwanted attention.
True desperation is known only when escape is impossible.
Cornered! Trapped! And forced to fight on...
No chance for egress - will this be a massacre?
This skirmish may be lost, but the battle may yet be won.
A wise general cuts losses, and regroups.
The sin is not in being outmatched, but in failing to recognize it.
Injury and despondence set the stage for heroism... or cowardice.
The human mind - fragile like a robin's egg.
Wherefore, heroism?
The mind cannot hope to withstand such an assault.
Even the aged oak will fall to the tempest's winds.
Madness, our old friend!
One can sometimes find clarity in madness, but only rarely...
Madness - sublimity of the intelligence, or so it has been said.
The bulwarks of the mind have fallen!
Behold, the abyss is made manifest!
Frustration and fury, more destructive than a hundred cannons.
Fear and frailty finally claim their due.
The walls close in, the shadows whisper of conspiracy!
There can be no hope in this hell, no hope at all.
Self-preservation is paramount - at any cost!
Those who covet injury find it in no short supply.
Reeling, gasping, taken over the edge into madness!
A moment of valor shines brightest against a backdrop of despair.
Adversity can foster hope, and resilience.
A moment of clarity in the eye of the storm...
Anger is power - unleash it!
Many fall in the face of chaos; but not this one, not today.
In those younger years my home was a hive of unbridled hedonism, a roiling apiary where instinct and impulse were indulged with wild abandon. A bewitching predator slipped in amidst the swarm of tittering sycophants. Though outwardly urbane, I could sense in her a mocking thirst. Driven half-mad by cloying vulgarity I plotted to rid myself of this lurking threat in a grand display of sadistic sport. But as the moment of murder drew nigh, the gibbous moon revealed her inhuman desires in all their stultifying hideousness…
Mercifully, the morbid encounter resolved itself in my favor, and I set to work pursuing degeneracy in its most decadent forms. The air pulsed with anticipation as I revealed the unnatural terroir of the house vintage. But my exultation was cut short as the attending gentry turned upon themselves in an orgy of an indescribable frenzy. A single drop of that forbidden tannin gifted me with a dizzying glimpse of a hibernating horror beneath my feet, and in that moment, I understood the terrible truth of the world. I stood reborn, molted by newfound knowledge, my head throbbing to the growing whine of winged vermin come to drink the tainted blood… of The Darkest Dungeon.
You still foolishly consider yourself an entity separate from the whole. I know better. And I. Will. Show you.
The flesh is fluid, it can be changed, reshaped, remade!
The flesh is immortal, it is undying. Pray it does not take too hideous a form.
Behold the heart of the world! Progenitor of life, Father and Mother, Alpha and Omega! Our creator... and our destroyer.
In the howling darkness of the end - men will become monsters, but hope will ride those courageous enough to carry... The Flame.
You were right to fear the world. It has gone mad. The gutters brim with poets, and decency lies burning in the street. But this is not a time for heroes. Look instead to those battered souls who have known fear and failure in ample portion, but rise again to reclaim a glimmer of hope from the spreading stain of the Darkest Dungeon.
I know failure well. I glimpsed it lurking at the ragged edges of your mind. I watched its venom spread through the veins of the world, and I trembled at its terrible reverberations. But I have seen its true nature. Beneath its bluster, deep within the debris of its crushing collapse, there lies a noble road. It calls out if your brave enough to believe, that you are not a prisoner of your past, that the fractured bones of this world can be mended, that a fragile flame long guttered by sour winds can blaze radiant once again. The time has come to face your failures, or be consumed by them.
Ruin has found you at last. My protégé - my friend - our calculations were correct: the ephemeral equation is unbalanced. The earth spins on a strange and terrifying new axis and everywhere... unbridled consequence. The world is a wasteland of failures past, and you must ride out into it, unafraid. Take this - it is Hope. The very last of it. It is yours now. You were bold once. Be bold once more. Free yourself from this suffocating stillness, fix your gaze on the horizon, and face the fearsome truth... of the Darkest Dungeon.
Up ahead - a light in the limitless expanse...
Forward now, into oblivion's inky embrace.
Push ahead, beyond the reach of this tenebrous malignity.
The greatest horror, it would seem, is nothing at all.
An ocean of emptiness... slowly swallowing the world.
While the Flame still burns, hope remains.
A nebulous nightmare - an apocalypse that only we can oppose.
How many souls are lost forever in this lightless obscurity?
Stagnant and sprawling, this hellish abyss extends beyond sanity itself.
We travel through the incalculable dimensions of human weakness.
Remain here if you wish. There is always more that can be learned.
You came here seeking solace but found stagnation instead.
The seat of your denial - perched precariously in the murky gloaming.
Indistinct and ill-lighted - no comfort awaits you here...
The house on the borderlands, half-swallowed by the stain.
Your sanctum, adrift in this bituminous nightmare.
You must face your failures, or be consumed by them.
The Shackles of Denial Must. Be. Destroyed.
You have cowered in your crumbling denial long enough.
I remember our first meeting on the steps of the University - a collegial handshake that would doom us both. Your insightful questions during my lectures gave me pause, and I recognized in you something... of a kindred spirit. Despite our differences in age and position, we shared a keen fascination for archaeology, folklore, and of course, occultism.
Interminable faculty socials became something of a delight, knowing we'd abscond to a quiet table and lose ourselves in riveting discussion and passionate debate.
Commonalities between the mythos of ancient cultures was not a new area of study for either of us, but it was there that we first noticed the pattern.
We spent long nights immersed in crumbling, worm-eaten volumes, plumbing the forbidden secrets of antiquity.
Between semesters, we would spend our days rambling the woods, talking excitedly of esoteric theory and ancient mysteries...
The university's resources were impressive and yet, on occasion we relished in... firsthand experience.
You were my brightest student, my research partner, and my dearest friend.
The mind must be freed of its self-imposed incarceration!
At last, the world's mind is free to remember a time before the cancerous corruption.
It was you who found the cypher, scribbled hastily in the decaying margins of some long forgotten tome. Scribbled... in blood. Whether by providence or happenstance, we stumbled upon the mark of some strange power invoked the world over, reflected in cultures predating mankind itself. A semicircle, radiating five points of power - a symbol hidden deep in the iconography of every ancient empire. The Iron Crown... enigmatic, and ubiquitous.
Left unsurfaced, grievances gain a terrible strength.
Let us drag your agglutinated indignities out into the light.
Your vociferous calls to bring our findings before the faculty were dangerously premature. Given the gaps in our understanding, doing so would risk ridicule, or worse, robbery. I took no pleasure in asserting my seniority - stifling your protestations with a strict mandate of absolute secrecy. You acquiesced, but your plaintive susurrations betrayed a burgeoning resentment.
We had managed to grasp a thread of connective worship - that stretched across vast gulfs of time and tribe. but we did not understand it.
We required the highest standard of empirical evidence, lest my career and your future be compromised by the cynicism of our peers.
Time and time again, I impressed upon you that any adulation afforded us would be fleeting if we could not properly defend our findings.
I understood your eagerness to build a reputation, and it pained me greatly to hold you back.
You mistook my abundance of caution for a lack of confidence, and would perseverate on your grievances at length.
The subsequent months were measured in melted candles, and mounting disappointments.
The Seething Sigh, stertorous avatar of ill-concealed rage!
Your fault was not in burying your furies, but in thinking they would accept such a fate.
The blaze began in the east wing of the Great Library. Within hours, the entirety of our effort lay in a smoldering, ashen heap. I braced against your rancorous buffeting, avowing a certain hesitant relief at our freedom from that mocking sigil. The uncanny arrival of the letter, however, heralded a new, pernicious phase of our investigation...
Mania and misery - companions to the last.
Morality chokes on the poison fruits of preoccupation.
We set out immediately into the kaleidoscopic wilds of the countryside, and by sundown, reached the remote manor whose whereabouts formed the sole contents of that cryptic invitation. At the behest of our charismatic host, we feasted beneath a banner of the Iron Crown; questioned exhaustively by an eager cabal of masked delegates.
Our host assured us of the groups anthropological values, but I sensed his designs extended well beyond the theoretical.
The house was scattered with ancient rarities and timeworn artifacts - all bearing that damnable emblem that had come to dominate our thoughts.
Eyes wild beneath their masks, the assembled devotees shared their terrible theories of timeless extradimensional intelligences of forces beyond human comprehension...
As the night wore on, circles were drawn carefully in chalk, and salt was laid upon the floor. This was not research, it was ritual. And I could not stifle my repulsion.
They lit black candles and chanted rhythmically in the gutteral tongues of long-forgotten tribes. Even now, I can hear the echoes of those awful invocations.
At my insistence, we retired to our room, where I countered your excitement by clearly outlining the vulnerability of our position. Reason prevailed, and we elected to block the door with a large dresser.
Obsession's unshrinking gaze, focused to a fault!
Obsession blinded you to your blessings, and smothered you in a fever dream of dissatisfaction.
We awoke to an empty house. the garroted bodies of the attendees lay around the basement dais, each prostrate along a point of the Crown; our host conspicuously absent. I could scarcely countenance  such obscenity, but you were transfixed, eyes ablaze with inspiration. The failed ritual would become your obsession - from that pivotal moment, you were blind to all else.
A relentless reach left you empty handed, clutching for more.
Ambition's rewards are dwarfed by its consequences.
Refusing enrollment in the fall, you took up in that mouldering brownstone, where I joined you in a vain attempt to assuage your aspirations. Now free from academic oversight and moral restraint, you vowed to reach into the blackest depths of the occult sciences and be the first to grasp the secret of the Iron Crown. The polarity between us reversed - I became your reluctant assistant in dozens of deplorable experiments, crushed in the grip of your ambition.
You calibrated prisms along the points of the Crown, cackling in smug satisfaction as wavelengths of hideous and indescribable light burned our eyes.
You attempted to map the geometric proportions of the Crown to frequencies of sound, and in the resulting silence, our ears welled with blood.
At night I could hear you shuffling about the house, muttering with diabolic intent.
The walls of the place closed tight about us, and it seemed at times that the outside world was a dream we could scarcely remember.
Desperate to somehow help you regain yourself, I prepared a breakfast, and an urgent appeal. My words fell on deaf ears; the food flung to the floor. Your appetites demanded more than I could hope to provide.
The Crown was a hateful and ravenous thing - it had consumed our careers, our lives, and our friendship. And still, it hungered...
Ambition's reach forever exceeds its terrible grasp!
Ambition drove you to abandon everything you had... for everything you wanted.
Unable to suffer your unprincipled overreach any longer, I made ready to depart; imploring you to rejoin me in more wholesome pursuits. Instead, you babbled of impossible measurements, ushering me down into the bolted cellar. In the dim light, I recoiled at the preparations you had made.  Four bodies, laid out along the lateral points of the Crown. As the dagger's blade revealed itself through my chest, I understood I was to be the fifth.
Cast your cowardice aside, and make right what you have wrought.
Your craven past is behind you - ahead lies redemption!
A precise arrangement, the sacrifice of conscience, the abandonment of self the Iron Crown had found its king.  Upon your furrowed brow, the mathematics of our existence, the geometry of the cosmos - an ephemeral equation wholly expressed in negative space. To invoke its power was to refactor the most fundamental underpinnings of our fragile dimension, to imprint one's mind upon reality itself...
The wind blew sour, the oceans roiled.  The earth shuddered at the coming change.
What world could be born of a mind so sharpened by appetence?
Mankind became a mockery - his newly horrid outlines a twisted tribute to the shape of your flaws.
Newborn horrors, spawn of the crown, imprinted with your insatiable, reaching hunger.
Our world convulses, stretched and torn by the emptiness that surrounds it.
This existential dissolution is born of you, and only you can do what must be done to stop it.
Here, at the nexus of ruin, loathing poured forth from the darkest recesses of your mind. Your failures took form, and the world bowed in honour of your great wretchedness. The stain of your bankruptcy frayed the very fabric of our dimension. But you were afraid to face what you had wrought, and fled down the long road of your memories. Hiding yourself away. I remember our first meeting on the steps of the University... You were golden, lit from within by the glow of potential.  Finally, my friend, I would see that potential realized. It is time to reclaim the world from your weakness. Meet your derelictions with blazing defiance! The Equation must be balanced. Gaze now upon your great achievement - the sumtotal of your failings.  Your Body of Work.
The carious gut of the coward, rife with toxic pusillanimity!
Its infernal gaze pierces the veil of reality...
Behold the hateful God upon His throne - your failures made flesh.
To destroy the thing is to destroy yourself, but the world will spring anew from the memory you kept of it.
Your confession is complete. The cosmic axes are aligned once more. Forgive yourself. Humanity is a weak hypothesis, after all. An unbalanced equation... an imperfect angle. We sow the seeds of our ruin, and seek to deny its reckoning. We make mountains of our mistakes, monsters of our misdeeds. We slip and stumble, we fail and we falter. And yet, in each of us, a hopeful light, holding fast against the hellish shadows that gather between our good intentions. And in each of us, the limitless emptiness... of a Darkest Dungeon.
Hunted, harried - a fugitive seeking to outpace the past.
A watchful protector, he will safeguard the roads he once haunted.
Pride - more devastating than the horrors of a hundred campaigns.
Humility fortifies the hand and the heart.  Behind his unwavering shield, the peasant militia will rally.
Avarice slips unseen into the catacombs of the mind.
She will seek out what was lost to the shadows, and restore it where it is needed most.
Indiscriminate science stains the surgeons hands.
The world's wounded have much to teach - she will study them, and work tirelessly to treat their trauma.
Beneath the bloodlust and fury, there is emptiness... and shame.
She will unite the remnants of her people and rid the wild steppes of what roaming horrors yet remain.
Nothing remains... save a burning will to survive.
She will teach others to survive in scarcity.  And through her, abundance will bloom from lifeless debris.
A murderous melody lingers long after the final chord has been struck.
Wherever people gather, his songs will soothe the destitute, and galvanize the fearful.
Making peace with adversity is the very essence of existence.
Wherever the weak and vulnerable bow beneath a cruel yoke, he will be there to repay their oppressors in kind.
To know the abyss, one must embrace it.
Warden and watcher, master of the outer spheres.  He will be a cosmic bulwark against intrusions from the void.
A sister of battle - repudiated but unbowed!
A beacon in the dark, her radiant faith will affirm the humanity in us all.
Zealotry - an undying blight upon the soul.
In the world's dark corners, he will revel in his rotting immortality.
A glint in the shadows - the hunter is here.
The thrill of the hunt... the promise of payment.
He has no past, no future... no mercy.
He will lend you his wicked talents... for a price.
The contract is sealed with a silent nod.
There, above the hearth, the hunter's mark...
The hunter waits, brooding beneath his cowl.
There is no man behind the hunter's mask - only a terrible thought.
He is the perfect weapon - a sharpened edge without pity or remorse.
Let us suffer the pitiless whim of chance then.
A random seed - a supplication at the altar of the unknown.
Is this fearlessness, or indecision?
We tempt fate, and accept damnation.
You must remember the world as it was, if you hope to save it.
It was not a perfect world, but it was ours, and we must fight to restore it.
Perhaps the world was a dream.  Even so, it is surely worth remembering.
It is your charge to manifest a vision of the sane earth.
Little by little, your recollection mends the rifts of this sundered plane.
Wisdom will help you choose a path, resourcefulness will ensure you survive it.
Study the winding roads and routes of our Kingdom - find any advantage!
Hail, the vessel of your deliverance.
These wheels are invested with noble purpose. Every rotation, blessed rest for the warriors of our cause.
There is no shame in celebrating your gains.
The struggle enriches your spirit.
Your boldness will not go unrewarded.
Your determination does you credit!
Do not retreat from painful remembrance. Embrace, and learn.
A welcome reprieve from the rigors of academia, the salted air and steady surf lulled us into a deep, restorative sleep.
Along the lively docks, cheerful fishmongers offered a limitless array of marine delicacies at a pittance.
We stood on the shore, gulls wheeling overhead, the horizon brimming with infinite possibilities...
A little company for the long ride ahead.
It cannot fight, but perhaps it can calm.
To recall a thing is to make it real once more.
Spare a thought for tools of iron - such implements will serve us well.
New instruments will help us diagnose the world's affliction, and overcome it.
A drop of sanity... in a sea of madness.
A welcome advancement in the science of survival.
Every twinkling recollection is another implement at our disposal.
Though infrequent, our pastoral retreats were always welcomed by the hardy folk of the fields.
Reticent at first, the farmers grew to appreciate our interest in their lifestyle and their lands.
The cropper's folklore was as rich as their soil, and we delighted in their ancient tales and esoteric rumours...
Look to those who have known fear and failure in ample portion.
Hearts and minds will carry the day.
These are beaten, broken souls - and yet, our fortunes ride with them.
A little more light, a little more strength.
The true splendor of a world - those who live within it.
Teeming markets, bustling streets - we delighted in the city's vitality.
We would often take our afternoon tea at the quaint café a few blocks from the library...
I recall evenings spent sipping wine in the square, marveling at the architecture I was sure would outlast us both.
The more they have to hold on to, the harder they will fight.
Memory is the hearth that warms the mind.
Reflect now on simpler times precious moments, and finer things.
As the mind wanders, the past feels almost within reach...
When all is lost, we cling to what we can remember.
A fleeting impression, a flickering light.
Bask for a moment in the light of distant days.
A memory of pleasure can dull a moment of pain.
Sun-dappled roads winding through ancient forests, our murmured conversations in the coach... We were close then.
Ancient bridges, crumbling old walls - you knew the history of each, and I delighted in your stories.
When the coach slowed at last, I demurred at how the voyage is often more transformational than the arrival.
Permutations of an idea, iterations of a soul.
Variety - superfluous for some, a necessity for others.
Tools and trappings - the regalia of a life.
Let them be properly attired for the apocalypse.
It is done.
Your labours have borne fruit.
Imperfect, surely.  But whole once more.
Wholesome accomplishment is good for the soul.
You have exhausted your supply...for now.
Each flicker has found gainful purpose. Seek more.
Assign no anguish to an empty purse.
Experience, well earned and well spent.
Ah! Hope springs in the unlikeliest places.
Search every shadow - there is a little light here.
Once more into the maelstrom, in search of what hope yet remains.
Sanctuary - as fleeting as a dying star.
The road calls once more to its dark passenger.
The Crossroads - who will step forward into the light?
The Crossroads - where lost souls hope to find their way.
The Crossroads - wait by the lantern's light and welcome what help may come.
The Crossroads - a place between places.
The Crossroads - a beacon for the broken and the battered.
The time for denial has passed.
Onward once again, though all the worlds horrors bar the way.
The Flame - sacred and sputtering. The last hope for us all.
Forward now, into the crumbling chaos of the world.
When you are ready, this rutted roadway will finally take you home...
The road is yours to travel, but you are not alone.
This was a beautiful place once... what a pity.
The leaves fall, never to grow again.
Onward - and let us hope enough yet remains of the world...
You can feel it - a change in the air.
The winds whip more harshly on the far side of the brook.
The point of no return welcomes you with open arms...
Comforts are exhausted... ahead, only trial and tribulation.
Each gravestone is more than a failure - it is a promise to do better.
Echoes of allies reverberating in the void.
To attempt and fail is no shameful thing.
You see? Even your valley is not immune to the spreading stain.
The bulwark of your denial is giving way...
Are you shaken? There is so much worse in store.
Push on to the Inn. Rest and resupply await you.
Behold the great cities of man - ruined and aflame.
Rubble and flame... as far as the eye can see.
Unhinged by the impending apocalypse, the fanatics burn book and building alike.
Centuries of human learning and achievement, ruined,by riotous contempt.
The fanatics feed themselves to the fire. Their flesh melting like candle wax.
The rancid crop grows unchecked and abhorrent...
Voracious and decadent, the landowners and peasants alike descended into an orgy of consumption.
They emptied their larders, gorging themselves as the world began to crumble.
First, they ate the rotten flesh of their animals. Then , still hungry, they turned upon themselves.
They thrill to the succulent flavour that grows up from some nightmare pit far beneath the earth.
War rewards only resignation.
Resigned to the end of things, they waited for death. And still they wait.
Emptied of mind and spirit by some existential shock, the poor devils roam aimlessly amidst the trees.
These seasoned soldiers were deployed to a winding front... meant to prevent the cult's descent from the Mountain.
When the cult came, no orders were shouted, no swords were drawn. There was only stupefying horror, and the catatonic lethargy that follows it.
Propriety floats listless on the tide, brined in noxious degradation.
Desperate to survive the rising tides, the fisherfolk of the coastal provinces resorted to a debased worship of the sea.
Primeval, water-worn monoliths were flung up from the ocean floor by some unaccountable tectonic action.
They prostrated themselves before the primigenial power of the obelisks, and were rewarded for their supplication.
To save themselves, they would slip beneath the brackish waters and be reborn in the image of their aquatic demiurge.
Tread carefully and quickly. This is swine country.
Hidden in warrens and ancient waterways, the swine proliferate unseen and unchecked.
There are rumours these rancorous beasts have some demoniac spark of... otherworldly intelligence.
The swine were first reported by denizens of a small hamlet nestled on the eastern coast.
At last the great Ziggurat - temple of failure and regret!
Behold, the source of the stain. Gateway to incomprehensible emptiness.
The caliginous cathedral, malign temple of the Iron Crown.
The nightmare gate is revealed! Beyond, only infernal nihility and nonexistence!
The unknown awaits. Be wary.
We venture blindly forth, at the mercy of the road and its myriad dangers.
Travel without proper reconnaissance?  A hasty and reckless thing indeed...
The tangled trails whisper of torment...
Our once-familiar kingdom, a stranger to itself...
Vermin hide by the roadside, waiting in ambush for unwary travelers...
Their devices may be crude, but promise atrocity all the same.
The road ahead is washed out and strewn with rocks - mind the wheels.
The route will exact a toll on wheel and axle both - hold fast.
The void has rended reality once more - a psychic onslaught awaits!
Despair and disorientation - steel your mind as we pass through the void.
Ruts in the roadway - there is a barricade ahead.
See the debris ahead? That is where they'll make their move!
Safe passage along this stretch - a welcome reprieve.
Let nothing bar your path!
A rare opportunity - let us advance unimpeded.
Though decidedly inconvenient, at least we know what's coming.
Is your coach prepared for the upcoming obstruction?
Brace up - there is danger on this path.
The Loathing Consumes...
The Loathing Howls...
The Loathing Whispers...
The Loathing Festers...
The Loathing Abates...
Reliable information brings accurate insight after all.
The fog is parted. Our way is made clear.
Look to the horizon and lament.
Everywhere, in all directions, destruction has claimed dominion.
The value of such a view is matched only by its unsettling awfulness.
If you hope to heal, you have chosen wisely.
She heals the injuries of others, while ignoring her own.
She understands the futility of her work but undertakes it nonetheless.
She weeps for the fallen, and knows she will join them soon enough.
Joints ache, and muscles burn. The body requires attention.
Strength comes in many forms.
We must preserve what is best in us.
Even the worst habits can be overcome.
We need not be defined by our shortcomings.
The treatment is harsh, but undeniably effective.
We can suffer no sickness on this pilgrimage.
The odds of illness are high - best to be prepared.
Tonics, tinctures, and remedies - the science of hope.
This is no place for decent folk.
Lost and desperate - they need your help.
Let us temper this world's cruelty, just a little.
The Flame sputters - you must give hope to get it.
Let us hope their desperation can be eased.
Facing oblivion, these folk have kept their honor. Have you?
You must be strong enough to shoulder more than your share of the burden.
Desperate and wanting. Will you rebuff their earnest pleas?
Look upon their noble struggle and be humbled by it.
Giving into madness is easier than holding out against it. They are heroes.
Look ahead - a place to reflect, remember, and reconcile.
Who will face the half-remembered horrors of their past?
We must understand the past if we are ever to be free of it.
It is a difficult thing to face the past... and even moreso to reconcile with it.
Acceptance requires honesty, painful as it might be.
Only when we acknowledge the past can we be free from it.
Let us hope the madman's scrounging has borne fruit.
His stifled smirking betrays a malign madness.
He struggles to decide what is real, holding back fits of laughter, and tears.
He chatters incoherently - but his prices remain fixed.
His attention is unfocused, as though he is in two places at once.
Trinkets and baubles, paid for in blood.
The tools of violence. Despicable and dangerous.
A regrettably necessary acquisition.
A bit of comfort on the road to damnation.
Something to ease the rigours of the road.
Trinkets and baubles, paid for in blood.
... such power in such a little thing.
A sound investment in roads yet untraveled.
Anything that lets us travel further is worth the cost.
Up ahead the seat of our regrettable research.
A place of research and inquiry. A monument to a once prestigious career.
This unkempt study evokes a feeling of the familiar does it not?
An academic's study. Full of the forbidden, and the forgotten.
Rummage through the shelves, laden with echoes of indistinct ideas.
The inscription reads, "The sacrifice of Hope opens the gate to ruin. Offer of yourself if you crave the Void."
Despite being in perfect working order, it remains damnably stuck, just before twelve.
An early experiment. Gerd yourself, and don't stand too close.
We found the pathetic creature chained to an obelisk a half mile beneath the old church ruins.
The theory at the time was that harm could be rendered to a subject, by proxy.
The well-worn seat of our research, still littered with notes, diagrams, and dusty journals.
I regret ever buying that cursed clay from which sprung this anathema.
Recovered from the sunken temple off the wind-whipped coast, it emanates an antediluvian power.
We were able to replicate the dark song, albeit in a more conventional key.
It would be unwise to open this hateful portal, if memory serves.
You painted without rest for days, babbling incoherently about distant, half-imagined places.
We reasoned that the mind must be dissected if it is to be understood.
A rare and impressive collection of folklore, ancient wisdom, and sinister secrets.
A handsome rendering of some wealthy degenerate.
There is something unearthly in the tannin of this unsavory vintage.
A sanctum of tranquility awaits...
A refreshing commune unburdens the mind.
Ahead, a bestial refuge, littered with bones and... less identifiable remains.
Sharpen your blades, that we may properly excise our portion.
Supplies this way if you can make it.
Perhaps I left this for you. Perhaps you left it for yourself. Perhaps it is not here at all.
My wealth and possessions, bundled into this meager pile.
Take up these goods and imbue them with purpose.
Karma abhors waste. Best to take all you can.
The Avatars of Oblivion, clergy of the Spreading Stain.
The beautiful illusion that was the world - fragmented and undone.
Reality comes asunder before our eyes!
Emptiness and dissolution have wormed their way into the world!
Behold, the infinite emptiness of the void!
Perhaps you are finding your courage at last.
Chaos must be met with unwavering resolve.
You will fight so that others may flee.
They revel in debauchery, debasing themselves in the face of the end.
Your path lies through them, and so they must fall.
Pity a soul so twisted by despair.
To arms, though it brings no satisfaction.
Lament the knowledge taken by the fires of these fanatics.
Emboldened anarchists, desperate to exercise their nihilism.
Plague Eaters - feeding on the tainted crop.
Toothy and corpulent, slaves to their hunger.
Slow, vacant, and resigned, the lost battalion shambles on.
They had honour once. Now they have nothing at all.
These slovenly creatures worship the sea. Let us return them to it.
The guttural prayers of the fisherfolk must be silenced.
The Leviathan's breath thickens the air!
Swine folk, indulging their vileness in the dark.
No choice - the brutish creatures must be confronted.
I trust you have calculated your odds carefully... this will not be easy.
This is a den of absolute evil and wretchedness. Prepare yourself.
Foul winds and foul tidings, no doubt the source is within.
Beware what awaits you inside.
Steel yourself, the hulking horror inside will not fall easily.
The Library burns - and with it, the remains of philosophy, reason, and insight.
The conflagration must be stopped! The Librarian Must. Be. Destroyed.
He teeters madly upon his ladder, reveling in the fiery destruction of human accomplishment!
The landowner's manor - do you hear the child's cries?
The harvest is here - pity those with a place at the table.
Born to a corpulent half-eaten mother, the child is a ravenous avatar of degeneracy!
Within every Keep, a General and his loyal, lumbering guard.
He has retreated, undying, into a dream - and there he must stay.
Locked in a nightmare slumber, he is tortured by failures both real, and imagined.
The Church of the Change, an inglorious heap of rotting timbers.
They must be made to see that their monstrous god is mortal.
At last, respite within reach.
The hearth calls out to the weary.
Haggard, tired-eyed, all are welcome here.
These warm, candlelit windows promise refuge.
A fortifying meal, a strong drink, and finally - rest.
The lost souls of a dying world - empty of hope and humanity.
Stumbling and grasping, shadows of what they once were.
Echoes of humanity, twisted by hopelessness...
The worst kind of parasite - opportunists.
Pillaging brigands, enriching themselves as the world collapses,
It is low indeed to profit in destruction.
The hooded watchers howl to their horrid kin.
A festering impasse - tended by toothy fiends!
They stand guard even now, deathless and dreaming.
The docks are choked once again with the repellant stench of rotting fish.
The pitiless stamp of cloven hooves can be heard ahead...
Wheels askew, coach limping - be prudent!
Mind your wheels - they have nothing left to give.
The coach's plating is spent - we are exposed!
Our protection has been stripped to its last...
Quickly - repair the damage and be off!
They seek to strike while we are vulnerable - hold them off!
You must survive this onslaught short-handed!
Work fast - and fight even faster!
Leave the wretches choking on our dust!
Let us hope these repairs will hold...
We move once more... albeit unsteadily.
The timbers creak, the wheels groan.  But we press on nonetheless.
Think carefully - today's oversight is tomorrow's regret.
Myriad options require careful deliberation.
The destination is never in question, only the route you take to get there.
When deliberation is exhausted, trust your instincts.
Consider all variables... but do it quickly.
A simple choice. At least, it should be.
An elementary problem, is it not?
We must keep moving...
Destiny will not be denied.
Procrastination of the inevitable is futility itself.
Onward, while there is still time!
Push forward - lamentably, there is no other choice.
Your collection can wait - press onward!
Analysis is invaluable, until it becomes an excuse for inaction.
All that matters is the flickering torch you bear...
Your coach is laden - you can carry no more.
Rest tonight, under the Mountain's unblinking gaze.
The fire is lit, the table is set. The Inn awaits its favourite guests...
There are yet places such as this, where a little light still gathers.
Rest now, for a time.
The roaring hearth does much for the weary body... even more perhaps for the restless soul.
Lower your guard, soften your gaze - it is safe here.
We would come here in summers of years gone to write, think, and rest.
The place is a little worse for wear, but familiar nonetheless.
The familiar hearth crackles invitingly once again...
Learn a  little, and begin again.
Will you press on into uncertainty... or claim what you can?
Shall we continue, or is the lesson too demanding?
Sometimes it is wiser to try anew, fortified by trials past.
Every league, a lesson.
Conventional fare, but fairly priced.
Precious relics remind us of a time before the end.
Spend what you can, for wealth no longer has meaning - if indeed it ever did.
Learn what can be taught, that you may stand just a little taller at the end.
Listen, practice, improve.
One learns quickly when survival demands it.
Your coach must be maintained if it is to carry you where you must go.
Each improvement a new variable in the equation of your fate.
Planning and mindfulness, as vital to survival  as sharpened steel.
The next stop is leagues away - plan accordingly.
Good - an improvement.
This will serve well.
Any advantage is a good thing.
Bolt it on and be off. The Mountain will not be denied.
Experimentation - your academic instincts serve you well.
Reconfigure - meet each challenge on its own terms.
An accomplishment worth remembering!
Let them know us by our reputation.
Radiant light will suffuse you with the strength of your convictions...
Only death for those who would seek to stifle us.
A smoother ride, for a time at least.
Repaired and refurbished - ready for the leagues ahead.
The plating is patched, the coach stands ready once more.
The roads a rife with peril - a little protection is always welcome.
The first of many forks in the road. Choose your path and ride out unbowed.
Everywhere in ruin, everywhere in need.
The provinces and cantrevs of our land, crumbling and undone.
Every road a winding torment. Every turn bent on our destruction.
Rain, fire, and rot. Is there no sanctuary from this madness?
Consider your position and plan accordingly.
Our great cities burn. All that beauty and knowledge, ash on the wind.
Another nameless city, another inferno of mutilation and madness.
The tainted crop continues to spread its tendrils of rot and pestilence.
The farms and fields of our kingdom, overrun with putrescence and rot.
Mud and rain. Resignation and death. This land is truly barren.
Trenches and tents - the front lines of a war that was never fought.
The barnacled timbers of the coastal villages are sodden with salt... and secrets.
The shrouded coast - isolated, and drowning in amphibious degeneracy.
Unmapped, unexplored. A risky proposition.
Abandoned waterways, home now to far worse than rats.
There is nothing for it now but to press on, come what may.
The inevitable end of your journey awaits you once again.
All roads lead to the Mountain, but only one leads beyond it.
Refracted, distorted - these glacial walls reflect the twisted heart of their maker.
Frigid wind wails through desolate canyons - a eulogy to the sane world.
The climb is treacherous, the air thin, but you will endure it.
No further shelter awaits. This is the very summit of cruelty.
Tried and tested - a bond to be counted on!
Aspiration unites the hopeful!
While the heart still beats, desire will never die!
Cruelty and callousness have claimed dominion here.
Resentment - the slowest and deadliest poison of them all.
Each covets what the other has, and plots to take it.
Narrowed eyes, muttered threats. All trust is lost.
Analysis is a natural prelude to action.
What can we learn upon closer inspection?
Let us take a closer look at the thing, as repulsive as it is.
Observe the subject carefully, and you will discover its weaknesses.
There is beauty in our imperfections.
All heroes are human.
This one is inches from death, is there nothing you can do?
The mind cannot hope to withstand such a protracted assault.
A little help, impeccably timed.
A calculated generosity, but a welcome one nonetheless.
This road cannot be walked alone.
A small foundation of trust...
Relief comes rarely in these times - savour it.
Self-reliance is a rare and wonderful thing.
There remains a foothold out of this mire - now climb.
There is comfort in company.
A simple kindness.
A small reprieve from this carousel of horrors.
Lenity, grace - small acts that drive back the darkness.
Compassion quiets the howling mind.
The pulse slows - sanity returns.
Empowered - emboldened!
Cooperation is the key!
In crisis, we can rely only upon each other.
Collaboration confers advantage...
Welcome relief from caustic agony...
This wound at least has been tended to.
Extinguished at last!
One less obstacle in our path.
Another impediment cleared with impunity.
Messy, but effective.
The work continues...
A righteous action!
A petty hinderance!
A simple variable, easily resolved.
A lesson taught is a lesson learned.
Straightforward, and effective!
Let us hope to finish this quickly.
A promising development...
Early results... are encouraging!
On to the next!
A trivial worriment...
Easily dispatched!
A trifling matter...
Elementary.
A simple solution.
A resounding response!
They falter - so press your advance!
Take heart! And do not relent!
All problems have their solutions... even the big ones.
Persistence will overcome even the greatest of threats.
The unrelenting application of violence yields morbid gains.
The smallest variable can make all the difference.
A deliberate and methodical appliance of harm.
A steady subtraction; an invariable result.
A slow dissection... an unavoidable end.
The enemy weakens and wanes!
The fiend's strength dwindles...
Malaise, measured and steady...
Weaken them, that another may finish the work!
Any being, however horrid, can be brought to heel.
Cunning! You may outwit them yet...
Victory supposed strategy. Press on!
A breakthrough!
Excellent work!
A brilliant conclusion!
Lethality writ large!
Stupendous!
Bravo!
A masterstroke!
Well done!
A miscalculation, perhaps?
An opportunity, squandered.
Haste and carelessness - hallmarks of the unprepared.
A slow suffering begins...
Incremental, but deadly all the same.
Measure out your violence, then apply it judiciously.
Agony by accumulation.
This is no time to falter!
Steady yourself!
Hold fast, for who knows what lurks in the beyond.
Stumbling and stupefied!
Bafflement and vexation!
Anxiety foments insidious fears...
The mind's grasp grows tenuous...
Trammeled! Trapped! Held captive by fear!
Awash in turmoil!
What is it, then, that gazes back so intently from the abyss?
And now... the greatest test of all.
Darkness encroaches, inexorable...
Perhaps they have given their last...
A setback, nothing more.
The siren song of the void - spurned for now.
Through adversity and affliction, the heart beats still!
Another blow on the bruise.
Dragged back from the brink!
Fellowship forged through toil.
The path of exculpation need not be a lonely one.
Solidarity may yet arrest this collapse.
Once again teetering on that terrible precipice...
Let us hope they find peace.
A long road... and an abrupt end.
Sadly, some casualties are to be expected.
Sacrifice bestows an uncertain absolution...
Another wound, another loss...
The sumtotal of violent equation, unfavourably rounded down.
An unforeseen complication...
Every road must end.
Not all who seek redemption will find it.
At last, the battlefield has claimed its due.
Another old soldier lays down his life in the dirt of a distant land.
Death comes to the rich and poor alike.
She fades into the shadows for the last time...
Nothing can survive such a wholesale organic failure.
She understood death, but could not defy it.
A warriors death - redemptive and transcendent.
She sought a glorious death, and found it.
Snuffed out before her time.
Extinguished, she can run no further.
The minstrel takes his final bow.
The final chord is struck.
Go with grace into the great beyond.
He was mourned years ago, now he is simply... gone.
He courted the unthinkable, but to no avail.
He will drift among the stars.
Pray her convictions lent some small comfort in her final moments.
At last... the thing has finally passed on.
A solitary life, a sudden death. Who knows what this one leaves behind?
An interminable conflict!
Fight through the fatigue!
Sweat-soaked brows, unsteady stances - exhaustion takes hold.
Cut down these nightmares and blaze the trail to your redemption.
The past is gone. Let it die.
We are the Flame, burning brightly for all the world to see.
Though unpleasant in the extreme, this work is noble... and necessary.
Sweet reprieve, until the next test is put before you.
Greater threats await those who dare.
In this weighty gloom, a spark.
We will see them again, I am sure of it.
In life or in death, we are all prisoners here.
For every miscalculation, a consequence.
The blood of the valorous and cowardly alike soaks this tainted soil.
Cowardice - a crude term for the science of self-preservation.
Recalculating one's odds is never a wasted endeavor.
Recognize your disadvantage, and accept it.
When myriad options align themselves against you, it is wise to desist.
In this world, wealth is worthless without purpose.
Scavenge what you can and be off once more.
An unexpected find...
Abandoned or forgotten - it is ours now.
In crisis, no gain is insignificant.
An impressive haul; put it to good use.
A fortune in memories long forgotten.
The wainwright awaits, eager to ply his trade.
An inkling of potency still lingers in some of these well-worn relics.
Amidst the spoils, an artifact of unparalleled power!
The means of mastery!
Experience, however painful, is the greatest teacher of all...
By confronting the past, we learn to face the future.
Push this half-made horror back into the void!
Loathing made manifest!
A parody of human outline - it must be destroyed!
Death has come to claim her elusive prize!
Death is manifest, and will suffer no abnegation.
The Pale Rider has tracked her quarry.
Denied once more, she retreats to some unknowable place...
What man is he who defies Death by sheer force of will?
The undying Flagellant escapes the scythe afresh...
The Antiquarian wants what we have and she will not be denied.
Once she had a sliver of decency, now only greed.
She searches the dying world for the keys to her own salvation.
The walker from beyond the stars - a shambling horror!
We tread beyond the realms of reason!
A star-spawned child of the infinite void!
At last - the veil begins to lift.
The shadow's advance has been halted - for a time.
Success, so long pursued, is rewarded only with creeping revelation.
The Flame sears the skulking shadows from the darkened corners of the earth!
Do not despair. There is nobility in the attempt.
Remain undeterred, and you may yet prevail.
Learn from each attempt. Deepen your understanding and victory will come.
Try and try again. You will break through this gloaming murk.
On and on, over and over, until the truth is laid bare, and you are finally free.
