Dispatch this thug in brutal fashion, that all may hear of your arrival!
Leave nothing unchecked, there is much to be found in forgotten places.
The cost of preparedness - measured now in gold, later in blood.
In time, you will know the tragic extent of my failings...
I was lord of this place, before the crows and rats made it their domain.
In truth I cannot tell how much time has passed since I sent that letter.
Once, our estate was the envy of this land...
Curiosity, interest, and obsession — mile markers on my road to damnation.
Let me share with you the terrible wonders I have come to know...
You answered the letter — now like me, you are part of this place.
We dug for months, years — an eternity. And we were rewarded with madness.
Great heroes can be found even here, in the mud and rain.
With enough ale, maybe they can be inured against the horrors below.
Strong drink, a game of chance, and companionship. The rush of life.
A little hope, however desperate, is never without worth.
A man in a robe, claiming communion with the divine. Madness.
In the end, every plan relies upon a strong arm, and tempered steel.
A sharper sword, a stronger shield. Anything to prolong a soldier's life.
Fan the flames! Mold the metal! We are raising an army!
Some may fall, but their knowledge lives on.
Every creature has a weakness. The wise hero trains for what she will face.
Success depends on survival.
They must learn more than brutal bloodletting — they must learn to survive!
Rarities and curios, sold at a profit, of course.
Curious methodologies and apparatus can calm even the most tormented soul.
Tortured and reclusive... this man is more dangerous than he seems...
She searches where others will not go... and sees what others will not see.
Shoot, bandage and pillage: the dancing steps of war.
The thrill of the hunt... The promise of payment...
A mighty sword-arm anchored by a holy purpose. A zealous warrior.
To those with a keen eye, gold gleams like a dagger's point.
Barbaric rage and unrelenting savagery make for a powerful ally.
Elusive, evasive, persistent. Righteous traits for a rogue.
A lawman and his faithful beast. A bond forged by battle and bloodshed.
He will be laughing still... at the end.
This man understands that adversity and existence are one and the same.
To fight the abyss, one must know it...
What better laboratory than the blood-soaked battlefield?
A sister of battle. Pious and unrelenting.
A champion markswoman keen for a new kind of challenge.
This one has become vestigial, useless.
Suffer not the lame horse... nor the broken man.
Another soul battered and broken, cast aside like a spent torch.
Those without the stomach for this place must move on.
Send this one to journey elsewhere, for we have need of sterner stock.
The task ahead is terrible, and weakness cannot be tolerated.
Pace out the halls of your lineage, once familiar, now foreign.
Can the defiled be consecrated? Can the fallen find rest?
The echoes of his mindless tittering reverberate maddeningly...
I knew all these paths once; now they are as twisted as my own ambitions.
Excise the fungal tumors and the land may yet live.
Our land is remote and unneighbored. Every lost resource must be recovered.
A nameless abomination, a testament to my failures - it must be destroyed!
The smell of rotting fish is almost unbearable...
I always wondered what became of the unfortunate little waif...
The poor devils, chained and drowning for eternity...
The great Ruins belong to us, and we will find whatever secrets they hold.
More bones returned to rest. Devils remanded to their abyss.
Room by room, hall by hall, we reclaim what is ours.
This day belongs to the Light!
Beacons in the darkness, stars in the emptiness of the void.
Tokens of hope, recovered from the encroaching dark.
The Abbot will be grateful - the trappings of his faith have been restored.
Did he foresee his own demise? I care not, so long as he remains dead.
Even reanimated bones can fall; even the dead can die again.
Paths and roads bring soldiers and supplies, let them arrive unharried!
Driving out corruption is an endless battle, but one that must be fought.
The agents of pestilence will yet be driven from our woods!
Good fortune and hard work may yet arrest this plague.
Disinfection, at last.
These tonics and herbs will stave off infection and neutralize contagion.
Leave her corpse to rot, consumed by the spores she spawned.
The swinefolk's labyrinth may yet prove to be navigable.
The twisting tunnels seem a little less ...impossible.
Their squeals fade, their confidence is shaken!
Ha ha ha! Let those dirty beasts worship the mud now!
Our supplies are replenished, the soldiers will feast tonight.
It is as grotesque in death as it was in life...
How many rats will it take to gnaw through a tonne of putrid flesh?
We will find all manner of great and terrible things in this watery tomb...
The pungent odour abates! The things are driven back, for a time.
Finally, a sailor's death for captain and crew. Fitting.
A setback, but not the end of things!
Wounds to be tended; lessons to be learned.
Regroup. Reassemble. Evil is timeless, after all.
Failure tests the mettle of heart, brain, and body.
You will endure this loss, and learn from it.
You cannot learn a thing you think you know...
We fall so that we may learn to pick ourselves up once again.
Ignorance of your enemy and of yourself will invariably lead to defeat.
Great adversity has a beauty - it is the fire that tempers.
Towering, fierce, terrible. Nightmare made material!
The madman hides there, behind the pews, spouting his mindless drivel!
Twisted and maniacal - a slathering testament to the powers of corruption!
A marvel of technology - an engine of destruction!
It is a travesty - a blundering mountain of hatred and rage.
Squirming, contorting and ever-expanding...this horror must be unmade!
Even in death, the captain shouts his orders, and the crew obeys...
Ha! The poor fool still stands, battered and broken as his precious mill.
A lifetime of pious toil, an eternity of suffering.
Fitting, that he find his rest upon the dirt he harrowed so fruitlessly.
Nothing lives for long on these barren fields.
Witness the wondrous fury of the Stars!
A star-spawned horror rattles its crystalline cage!
Shattered and unmade! Or, perhaps, reborn?
It will live again in another time, another place.
Who could fathom the hateful scorn of the swirling stars!
The twisted faces of the damned, piled high and cloaked in malice!
The sparkling eyes of youth - twisted and made merciless!
As the ghoulish collection scatters, the rats prepare to feast.
A predator is often blind to its own peril.
Behold the infinite malignity of the stars!
A star-spawned horror!
The space between worlds is no place for mortal men.
It could be dismissed as a fever dream, if not for the corpses.
A denizen of unconscionable alienage.
A shard of alien malignity!
A lurching composition of otherworldly death!
A shuddering crystalline bulk!
Born of the void, it dies in the Earth!
Banished in the void!
It came from the stars, let it return to them.
The match is struck. A blazing star is born!
In radiance may we find victory.
As the light gains purchase, spirits are lifted and purpose is made clear.
The light, the promise of safety!
The darkness holds much worse than mere trickery and bogeymen.
Darkness closes in, haunting the hearts of men.
Terrors may indeed stalk these shadows, but yonder – a glint of gold."
And now... the darkness holds dominion – black as death.
Glittering gold, trinkets and baubles - paid for in blood.
If only treasure could staunch the flow of otherworldly corruption...
Finding the stuff is only the first test - now it must be carried home.
Packs laden with loot are often low on supplies.
Wealth beyond measure, awarded to the brave and the foolhardy alike.
A fortune - waiting to be spent.
A handsome reward for a task well performed.
Circled in the dark, the battle may yet be won.
A spark without kindling is a goal without hope.
Gathered close in tenuous firelight, and uneasy companionship.
A moment of respite. A chance to steel oneself against the coming horrors.
Huddled together, furtive and vulnerable. Rats in a maze.
Cruel machinations spring to life with a singular purpose!
Mechanical hazards, possessed by evil intent.
Ambushed by foul invention!
Ancient traps lie in wait, unsprung and thirsting for blood.
Carelessness will find no clemency in this place!
Watch your step.
Mind that such missteps are the exception, and not the rule.
Even the cold stone seems bent on preventing passage.
Another mariner... Another misfortune.
Without tools of iron, you must rely on flesh and indefatigable purpose.
To fall for such a little thing... a bite of bread...
Packs full of steel and war, but nary a thought given to the plow.
No force of will can overcome a failing body.
The requirements of survival cannot be met on an empty stomach.
Soothed, sedated.
A momentary abatement...
The wounds of war can be healed, but never hidden.
Compassion is a rarity in the fevered pitch of battle.
Surgical precision!
Vigor is restored!
The blood pumps, the limbs obey!
The flesh is knit!
Patched up, if only to bleed again.
Death cannot be escaped! But it can be postponed.
A death denied for now.
Death is patient, it will wait.
As the fiend falls, a faint hope blossoms.
Confidence surges as the enemy crumbles!
Press this advantage, give them no quarter!
Their formation is broken - maintain the offensive.
Continue the onslaught! Destroy. Them. All.
Executed with impunity!
Another abomination cleansed from our lands.
Begone, fiend!
Back to the pit!
Another one falls!
Decimated!
Obliterated!
Destroyed!
Eradicated!
Annihilated!
Prodigious size alone does not dissuade the sharpened blade.
Their cursed champion falls!
The bigger the beast, the greater the glory.
A victory - perhaps a turning point.
A death by inches...
Great is the weapon that cuts on its own!
Slowly, gently, this is how a life is taken...
The slow death - unforeseen, unforgiving.
A decisive pummelling!
A powerful blow!
A devastating blow!
Impressive!
The ground quakes!
A singular strike!
Well struck!
Precision and power!
Masterfully executed!
How quickly the tide turns!
Mortality clarified in a single strike!
Grievous injury, palpable fear...
Such a terrible assault cannot be left unanswered!
Death waits for the slightest lapse in concentration.
Exposed to a killing blow!
Ringing ears, blurred vision - the end approaches...
Dazed, reeling, about to break...
Unnerved, unbalanced...
A dizzying blow to body and brain!
Weakened!
Diminished!
The will to fight falters!
Confusion, nerves, and panic!
Gnawing uncertainty - the birthplace of dread.
Festering fear consumes the mind!
The horror...
The abyss returns even the boldest gaze.
The blood quickens!
A brilliant confluence of skill and purpose!
A time to perform beyond one's limits!
Inspiration and improvement!
Perched at the very precipice of oblivion...
A hand-breadth from becoming unwound...
Teetering on the brink, facing the abyss...
And now the true test... hold fast, or expire?
As life ebbs, terrible vistas of emptiness reveal themselves.
Survival is a tenuous proposition in this sprawling tomb.
More blood soaks the soil, feeding the evil therein.
Another life wasted in the pursuit of glory and gold.
This is no place for the weak, or the foolhardy.
This is no place for the weak, or foolhardy.
More dust, more ashes, more disappointment.
These nightmarish creatures can be felled! They can be beaten!
Seize this momentum! Push on to the task's end!
This expedition, at least, promises success.
As victories mount, so too will resistance.
Success so clearly in view... or is it merely a trick of the light?
Remind yourself that overconfidence is a slow and insidious killer.
A trifling victory, but a victory nonetheless.
Be wary - triumphant pride precipitates a dizzying fall...
Ghoulish horrors - brought low and driven into the mud!
Impressive haul! If you value such things.
Ornaments neatly ordered, lovingly admired.
Such a burden of finery risks life and limb.
A full pack often attracts unwanted attention.
True desperation is known only when escape is impossible.
Cornered! Trapped! And forced to fight on...
No chance for egress - will this be a massacre?
This skirmish may be lost, but the battle may yet be won.
A wise general cuts losses, and regroups.
The sin is not in being outmatched, but in failing to recognize it.
Injury and despondence set the stage for heroism... or cowardice.
The human mind - fragile like a robin's egg.
Wherefore, heroism?
The mind cannot hope to withstand such an assault.
Even the aged oak will fall to the tempest's winds.
Madness, our old friend!
One can sometimes find clarity in madness, but only rarely...
Madness - sublimity of the intelligence, or so it has been said.
The bulwarks of the mind have fallen!
Behold, the abyss is made manifest!
Frustration and fury, more destructive than a hundred cannons.
Fear and frailty finally claim their due.
The walls close in, the shadows whisper of conspiracy!
There can be no hope in this hell, no hope at all.
Self-preservation is paramount - at any cost!
Those who covet injury find it in no short supply.
Reeling, gasping, taken over the edge into madness!
A moment of valor shines brightest against a backdrop of despair.
Adversity can foster hope, and resilience.
A moment of clarity in the eye of the storm...
Anger is power - unleash it!
Many fall in the face of chaos; but not this one, not today.
The flesh is fluid, it can be changed, reshaped, remade!
Up ahead - a light in the limitless expanse...
Forward now, into oblivion's inky embrace.
Push ahead, beyond the reach of this tenebrous malignity.
The greatest horror, it would seem, is nothing at all.
An ocean of emptiness... slowly swallowing the world.
While the Flame still burns, hope remains.
A nebulous nightmare - an apocalypse that only we can oppose.
How many souls are lost forever in this lightless obscurity?
Stagnant and sprawling, this hellish abyss extends beyond sanity itself.
We travel through the incalculable dimensions of human weakness.
Remain here if you wish. There is always more that can be learned.
You came here seeking solace but found stagnation instead.
The seat of your denial - perched precariously in the murky gloaming.
Indistinct and ill-lighted - no comfort awaits you here...
The house on the borderlands, half-swallowed by the stain.
Your sanctum, adrift in this bituminous nightmare.
You must face your failures, or be consumed by them.
The Shackles of Denial Must. Be. Destroyed.
You have cowered in your crumbling denial long enough.
You were my brightest student, my research partner, and my dearest friend.
The mind must be freed of its self-imposed incarceration!
Left unsurfaced, grievances gain a terrible strength.
Let us drag your agglutinated indignities out into the light.
The Seething Sigh, stertorous avatar of ill-concealed rage!
Mania and misery - companions to the last.
Morality chokes on the poison fruits of preoccupation.
Obsession's unshrinking gaze, focused to a fault!
A relentless reach left you empty handed, clutching for more.
Ambition's rewards are dwarfed by its consequences.
Ambition's reach forever exceeds its terrible grasp!
Cast your cowardice aside, and make right what you have wrought.
Your craven past is behind you - ahead lies redemption!
What world could be born of a mind so sharpened by appetence?
Our world convulses, stretched and torn by the emptiness that surrounds it.
The carious gut of the coward, rife with toxic pusillanimity!
Its infernal gaze pierces the veil of reality...
Behold the hateful God upon His throne - your failures made flesh.
Hunted, harried - a fugitive seeking to outpace the past.
A watchful protector, he will safeguard the roads he once haunted.
Pride - more devastating than the horrors of a hundred campaigns.
Avarice slips unseen into the catacombs of the mind.
Indiscriminate science stains the surgeons hands.
Beneath the bloodlust and fury, there is emptiness... and shame.
Nothing remains... save a burning will to survive.
A murderous melody lingers long after the final chord has been struck.
Making peace with adversity is the very essence of existence.
To know the abyss, one must embrace it.
A sister of battle - repudiated but unbowed!
A beacon in the dark, her radiant faith will affirm the humanity in us all.
Zealotry - an undying blight upon the soul.
In the world's dark corners, he will revel in his rotting immortality.
A glint in the shadows - the hunter is here.
The thrill of the hunt... the promise of payment.
He has no past, no future... no mercy.
He will lend you his wicked talents... for a price.
The contract is sealed with a silent nod.
There, above the hearth, the hunter's mark...
The hunter waits, brooding beneath his cowl.
There is no man behind the hunter's mask - only a terrible thought.
He is the perfect weapon - a sharpened edge without pity or remorse.
Let us suffer the pitiless whim of chance then.
A random seed - a supplication at the altar of the unknown.
Is this fearlessness, or indecision?
We tempt fate, and accept damnation.
You must remember the world as it was, if you hope to save it.
Perhaps the world was a dream.  Even so, it is surely worth remembering.
It is your charge to manifest a vision of the sane earth.
Little by little, your recollection mends the rifts of this sundered plane.
Study the winding roads and routes of our Kingdom - find any advantage!
Hail, the vessel of your deliverance.
There is no shame in celebrating your gains.
The struggle enriches your spirit.
Your boldness will not go unrewarded.
Your determination does you credit!
Do not retreat from painful remembrance. Embrace, and learn.
A little company for the long ride ahead.
It cannot fight, but perhaps it can calm.
To recall a thing is to make it real once more.
Spare a thought for tools of iron - such implements will serve us well.
A drop of sanity... in a sea of madness.
A welcome advancement in the science of survival.
Every twinkling recollection is another implement at our disposal.
Look to those who have known fear and failure in ample portion.
Hearts and minds will carry the day.
These are beaten, broken souls - and yet, our fortunes ride with them.
A little more light, a little more strength.
The true splendor of a world - those who live within it.
Teeming markets, bustling streets - we delighted in the city's vitality.
The more they have to hold on to, the harder they will fight.
Memory is the hearth that warms the mind.
Reflect now on simpler times precious moments, and finer things.
As the mind wanders, the past feels almost within reach...
When all is lost, we cling to what we can remember.
A fleeting impression, a flickering light.
Bask for a moment in the light of distant days.
A memory of pleasure can dull a moment of pain.
Permutations of an idea, iterations of a soul.
Variety - superfluous for some, a necessity for others.
Tools and trappings - the regalia of a life.
Let them be properly attired for the apocalypse.
It is done.
Your labours have borne fruit.
Imperfect, surely.  But whole once more.
Wholesome accomplishment is good for the soul.
You have exhausted your supply...for now.
Each flicker has found gainful purpose. Seek more.
Assign no anguish to an empty purse.
Experience, well earned and well spent.
Ah! Hope springs in the unlikeliest places.
Search every shadow - there is a little light here.
Once more into the maelstrom, in search of what hope yet remains.
Sanctuary - as fleeting as a dying star.
The road calls once more to its dark passenger.
The Crossroads - who will step forward into the light?
The Crossroads - where lost souls hope to find their way.
The Crossroads - a place between places.
The Crossroads - a beacon for the broken and the battered.
The time for denial has passed.
Onward once again, though all the worlds horrors bar the way.
The Flame - sacred and sputtering. The last hope for us all.
Forward now, into the crumbling chaos of the world.
When you are ready, this rutted roadway will finally take you home...
The road is yours to travel, but you are not alone.
This was a beautiful place once... what a pity.
The leaves fall, never to grow again.
Onward - and let us hope enough yet remains of the world...
You can feel it - a change in the air.
The winds whip more harshly on the far side of the brook.
The point of no return welcomes you with open arms...
Comforts are exhausted... ahead, only trial and tribulation.
Each gravestone is more than a failure - it is a promise to do better.
Echoes of allies reverberating in the void.
To attempt and fail is no shameful thing.
You see? Even your valley is not immune to the spreading stain.
The bulwark of your denial is giving way...
Are you shaken? There is so much worse in store.
Push on to the Inn. Rest and resupply await you.
Behold the great cities of man - ruined and aflame.
Rubble and flame... as far as the eye can see.
Centuries of human learning and achievement, ruined,by riotous contempt.
The rancid crop grows unchecked and abhorrent...
War rewards only resignation.
Resigned to the end of things, they waited for death. And still they wait.
Propriety floats listless on the tide, brined in noxious degradation.
Tread carefully and quickly. This is swine country.
At last the great Ziggurat - temple of failure and regret!
Behold, the source of the stain. Gateway to incomprehensible emptiness.
The caliginous cathedral, malign temple of the Iron Crown.
The unknown awaits. Be wary.
We venture blindly forth, at the mercy of the road and its myriad dangers.
Travel without proper reconnaissance?  A hasty and reckless thing indeed...
The tangled trails whisper of torment...
Our once-familiar kingdom, a stranger to itself...
Vermin hide by the roadside, waiting in ambush for unwary travelers...
Their devices may be crude, but promise atrocity all the same.
The road ahead is washed out and strewn with rocks - mind the wheels.
The route will exact a toll on wheel and axle both - hold fast.
The void has rended reality once more - a psychic onslaught awaits!
Despair and disorientation - steel your mind as we pass through the void.
Ruts in the roadway - there is a barricade ahead.
See the debris ahead? That is where they'll make their move!
Safe passage along this stretch - a welcome reprieve.
Let nothing bar your path!
A rare opportunity - let us advance unimpeded.
Though decidedly inconvenient, at least we know what's coming.
Is your coach prepared for the upcoming obstruction?
Brace up - there is danger on this path.
The Loathing Consumes...
The Loathing Howls...
The Loathing Whispers...
The Loathing Festers...
The Loathing Abates...
Reliable information brings accurate insight after all.
The fog is parted. Our way is made clear.
Look to the horizon and lament.
Everywhere, in all directions, destruction has claimed dominion.
The value of such a view is matched only by its unsettling awfulness.
If you hope to heal, you have chosen wisely.
She heals the injuries of others, while ignoring her own.
She understands the futility of her work but undertakes it nonetheless.
She weeps for the fallen, and knows she will join them soon enough.
Joints ache, and muscles burn. The body requires attention.
Strength comes in many forms.
We must preserve what is best in us.
Even the worst habits can be overcome.
We need not be defined by our shortcomings.
The treatment is harsh, but undeniably effective.
We can suffer no sickness on this pilgrimage.
The odds of illness are high - best to be prepared.
Tonics, tinctures, and remedies - the science of hope.
This is no place for decent folk.
Lost and desperate - they need your help.
Let us temper this world's cruelty, just a little.
The Flame sputters - you must give hope to get it.
Let us hope their desperation can be eased.
Facing oblivion, these folk have kept their honor. Have you?
You must be strong enough to shoulder more than your share of the burden.
Desperate and wanting. Will you rebuff their earnest pleas?
Look upon their noble struggle and be humbled by it.
Giving into madness is easier than holding out against it. They are heroes.
Look ahead - a place to reflect, remember, and reconcile.
Who will face the half-remembered horrors of their past?
We must understand the past if we are ever to be free of it.
Acceptance requires honesty, painful as it might be.
Only when we acknowledge the past can we be free from it.
Let us hope the madman's scrounging has borne fruit.
His stifled smirking betrays a malign madness.
He chatters incoherently - but his prices remain fixed.
His attention is unfocused, as though he is in two places at once.
Trinkets and baubles, paid for in blood.
The tools of violence. Despicable and dangerous.
A regrettably necessary acquisition.
A bit of comfort on the road to damnation.
Something to ease the rigours of the road.
Trinkets and baubles, paid for in blood.
... such power in such a little thing.
A sound investment in roads yet untraveled.
Anything that lets us travel further is worth the cost.
Up ahead the seat of our regrettable research.
A place of research and inquiry. A monument to a once prestigious career.
This unkempt study evokes a feeling of the familiar does it not?
An academic's study. Full of the forbidden, and the forgotten.
Rummage through the shelves, laden with echoes of indistinct ideas.
An early experiment. Gerd yourself, and don't stand too close.
I regret ever buying that cursed clay from which sprung this anathema.
We were able to replicate the dark song, albeit in a more conventional key.
It would be unwise to open this hateful portal, if memory serves.
We reasoned that the mind must be dissected if it is to be understood.
A handsome rendering of some wealthy degenerate.
There is something unearthly in the tannin of this unsavory vintage.
A sanctum of tranquility awaits...
A refreshing commune unburdens the mind.
Sharpen your blades, that we may properly excise our portion.
Supplies this way if you can make it.
My wealth and possessions, bundled into this meager pile.
Take up these goods and imbue them with purpose.
Karma abhors waste. Best to take all you can.
The Avatars of Oblivion, clergy of the Spreading Stain.
The beautiful illusion that was the world - fragmented and undone.
Reality comes asunder before our eyes!
Emptiness and dissolution have wormed their way into the world!
Behold, the infinite emptiness of the void!
Perhaps you are finding your courage at last.
Chaos must be met with unwavering resolve.
You will fight so that others may flee.
They revel in debauchery, debasing themselves in the face of the end.
Your path lies through them, and so they must fall.
Pity a soul so twisted by despair.
To arms, though it brings no satisfaction.
Lament the knowledge taken by the fires of these fanatics.
Emboldened anarchists, desperate to exercise their nihilism.
Plague Eaters - feeding on the tainted crop.
Toothy and corpulent, slaves to their hunger.
Slow, vacant, and resigned, the lost battalion shambles on.
They had honour once. Now they have nothing at all.
These slovenly creatures worship the sea. Let us return them to it.
The guttural prayers of the fisherfolk must be silenced.
The Leviathan's breath thickens the air!
Swine folk, indulging their vileness in the dark.
No choice - the brutish creatures must be confronted.
I trust you have calculated your odds carefully... this will not be easy.
This is a den of absolute evil and wretchedness. Prepare yourself.
Foul winds and foul tidings, no doubt the source is within.
Beware what awaits you inside.
Steel yourself, the hulking horror inside will not fall easily.
The conflagration must be stopped! The Librarian Must. Be. Destroyed.
The landowner's manor - do you hear the child's cries?
The harvest is here - pity those with a place at the table.
Within every Keep, a General and his loyal, lumbering guard.
He has retreated, undying, into a dream - and there he must stay.
The Church of the Change, an inglorious heap of rotting timbers.
They must be made to see that their monstrous god is mortal.
At last, respite within reach.
The hearth calls out to the weary.
Haggard, tired-eyed, all are welcome here.
These warm, candlelit windows promise refuge.
A fortifying meal, a strong drink, and finally - rest.
The lost souls of a dying world - empty of hope and humanity.
Stumbling and grasping, shadows of what they once were.
Echoes of humanity, twisted by hopelessness...
The worst kind of parasite - opportunists.
Pillaging brigands, enriching themselves as the world collapses,
It is low indeed to profit in destruction.
The hooded watchers howl to their horrid kin.
A festering impasse - tended by toothy fiends!
They stand guard even now, deathless and dreaming.
The docks are choked once again with the repellant stench of rotting fish.
The pitiless stamp of cloven hooves can be heard ahead...
Wheels askew, coach limping - be prudent!
Mind your wheels - they have nothing left to give.
The coach's plating is spent - we are exposed!
Our protection has been stripped to its last...
Quickly - repair the damage and be off!
They seek to strike while we are vulnerable - hold them off!
You must survive this onslaught short-handed!
Work fast - and fight even faster!
Leave the wretches choking on our dust!
Let us hope these repairs will hold...
We move once more... albeit unsteadily.
The timbers creak, the wheels groan.  But we press on nonetheless.
Think carefully - today's oversight is tomorrow's regret.
Myriad options require careful deliberation.
The destination is never in question, only the route you take to get there.
When deliberation is exhausted, trust your instincts.
Consider all variables... but do it quickly.
A simple choice. At least, it should be.
An elementary problem, is it not?
We must keep moving...
Destiny will not be denied.
Procrastination of the inevitable is futility itself.
Onward, while there is still time!
Push forward - lamentably, there is no other choice.
Your collection can wait - press onward!
Analysis is invaluable, until it becomes an excuse for inaction.
All that matters is the flickering torch you bear...
Your coach is laden - you can carry no more.
Rest tonight, under the Mountain's unblinking gaze.
The fire is lit, the table is set. The Inn awaits its favourite guests...
There are yet places such as this, where a little light still gathers.
Rest now, for a time.
Lower your guard, soften your gaze - it is safe here.
We would come here in summers of years gone to write, think, and rest.
The place is a little worse for wear, but familiar nonetheless.
The familiar hearth crackles invitingly once again...
Learn a  little, and begin again.
Will you press on into uncertainty... or claim what you can?
Shall we continue, or is the lesson too demanding?
Sometimes it is wiser to try anew, fortified by trials past.
Every league, a lesson.
Conventional fare, but fairly priced.
Precious relics remind us of a time before the end.
Listen, practice, improve.
One learns quickly when survival demands it.
Your coach must be maintained if it is to carry you where you must go.
Each improvement a new variable in the equation of your fate.
Planning and mindfulness, as vital to survival  as sharpened steel.
The next stop is leagues away - plan accordingly.
Good - an improvement.
This will serve well.
Any advantage is a good thing.
Bolt it on and be off. The Mountain will not be denied.
Experimentation - your academic instincts serve you well.
Reconfigure - meet each challenge on its own terms.
An accomplishment worth remembering!
Let them know us by our reputation.
Radiant light will suffuse you with the strength of your convictions...
Only death for those who would seek to stifle us.
A smoother ride, for a time at least.
Repaired and refurbished - ready for the leagues ahead.
The plating is patched, the coach stands ready once more.
The roads a rife with peril - a little protection is always welcome.
The first of many forks in the road. Choose your path and ride out unbowed.
Everywhere in ruin, everywhere in need.
The provinces and cantrevs of our land, crumbling and undone.
Every road a winding torment. Every turn bent on our destruction.
Rain, fire, and rot. Is there no sanctuary from this madness?
Consider your position and plan accordingly.
Our great cities burn. All that beauty and knowledge, ash on the wind.
Another nameless city, another inferno of mutilation and madness.
The tainted crop continues to spread its tendrils of rot and pestilence.
The farms and fields of our kingdom, overrun with putrescence and rot.
Mud and rain. Resignation and death. This land is truly barren.
Trenches and tents - the front lines of a war that was never fought.
The shrouded coast - isolated, and drowning in amphibious degeneracy.
Unmapped, unexplored. A risky proposition.
Abandoned waterways, home now to far worse than rats.
There is nothing for it now but to press on, come what may.
The inevitable end of your journey awaits you once again.
All roads lead to the Mountain, but only one leads beyond it.
Frigid wind wails through desolate canyons - a eulogy to the sane world.
The climb is treacherous, the air thin, but you will endure it.
No further shelter awaits. This is the very summit of cruelty.
Tried and tested - a bond to be counted on!
Aspiration unites the hopeful!
While the heart still beats, desire will never die!
Cruelty and callousness have claimed dominion here.
Resentment - the slowest and deadliest poison of them all.
Each covets what the other has, and plots to take it.
Narrowed eyes, muttered threats. All trust is lost.
Analysis is a natural prelude to action.
What can we learn upon closer inspection?
Let us take a closer look at the thing, as repulsive as it is.
Observe the subject carefully, and you will discover its weaknesses.
There is beauty in our imperfections.
All heroes are human.
This one is inches from death, is there nothing you can do?
The mind cannot hope to withstand such a protracted assault.
A little help, impeccably timed.
A calculated generosity, but a welcome one nonetheless.
This road cannot be walked alone.
A small foundation of trust...
Relief comes rarely in these times - savour it.
Self-reliance is a rare and wonderful thing.
There remains a foothold out of this mire - now climb.
There is comfort in company.
A simple kindness.
A small reprieve from this carousel of horrors.
Lenity, grace - small acts that drive back the darkness.
Compassion quiets the howling mind.
The pulse slows - sanity returns.
Empowered - emboldened!
Cooperation is the key!
In crisis, we can rely only upon each other.
Collaboration confers advantage...
Welcome relief from caustic agony...
This wound at least has been tended to.
Extinguished at last!
One less obstacle in our path.
Another impediment cleared with impunity.
Messy, but effective.
The work continues...
A righteous action!
A petty hinderance!
A simple variable, easily resolved.
A lesson taught is a lesson learned.
Straightforward, and effective!
Let us hope to finish this quickly.
A promising development...
Early results... are encouraging!
On to the next!
A trivial worriment...
Easily dispatched!
A trifling matter...
Elementary.
A simple solution.
A resounding response!
They falter - so press your advance!
Take heart! And do not relent!
All problems have their solutions... even the big ones.
Persistence will overcome even the greatest of threats.
The unrelenting application of violence yields morbid gains.
The smallest variable can make all the difference.
A deliberate and methodical appliance of harm.
A steady subtraction; an invariable result.
A slow dissection... an unavoidable end.
The enemy weakens and wanes!
The fiend's strength dwindles...
Malaise, measured and steady...
Weaken them, that another may finish the work!
Any being, however horrid, can be brought to heel.
Cunning! You may outwit them yet...
Victory supposed strategy. Press on!
A breakthrough!
Excellent work!
A brilliant conclusion!
Lethality writ large!
Stupendous!
Bravo!
A masterstroke!
Well done!
A miscalculation, perhaps?
An opportunity, squandered.
Haste and carelessness - hallmarks of the unprepared.
A slow suffering begins...
Incremental, but deadly all the same.
Measure out your violence, then apply it judiciously.
Agony by accumulation.
This is no time to falter!
Steady yourself!
Hold fast, for who knows what lurks in the beyond.
Stumbling and stupefied!
Bafflement and vexation!
Anxiety foments insidious fears...
The mind's grasp grows tenuous...
Trammeled! Trapped! Held captive by fear!
Awash in turmoil!
What is it, then, that gazes back so intently from the abyss?
And now... the greatest test of all.
Darkness encroaches, inexorable...
Perhaps they have given their last...
A setback, nothing more.
The siren song of the void - spurned for now.
Through adversity and affliction, the heart beats still!
Another blow on the bruise.
Dragged back from the brink!
Fellowship forged through toil.
The path of exculpation need not be a lonely one.
Solidarity may yet arrest this collapse.
Once again teetering on that terrible precipice...
Let us hope they find peace.
A long road... and an abrupt end.
Sadly, some casualties are to be expected.
Sacrifice bestows an uncertain absolution...
Another wound, another loss...
The sumtotal of violent equation, unfavourably rounded down.
An unforeseen complication...
Every road must end.
Not all who seek redemption will find it.
At last, the battlefield has claimed its due.
Another old soldier lays down his life in the dirt of a distant land.
Death comes to the rich and poor alike.
She fades into the shadows for the last time...
Nothing can survive such a wholesale organic failure.
She understood death, but could not defy it.
A warriors death - redemptive and transcendent.
She sought a glorious death, and found it.
Snuffed out before her time.
Extinguished, she can run no further.
The minstrel takes his final bow.
The final chord is struck.
Go with grace into the great beyond.
He was mourned years ago, now he is simply... gone.
He courted the unthinkable, but to no avail.
He will drift among the stars.
Pray her convictions lent some small comfort in her final moments.
At last... the thing has finally passed on.
A solitary life, a sudden death. Who knows what this one leaves behind?
An interminable conflict!
Fight through the fatigue!
Sweat-soaked brows, unsteady stances - exhaustion takes hold.
Cut down these nightmares and blaze the trail to your redemption.
The past is gone. Let it die.
We are the Flame, burning brightly for all the world to see.
Though unpleasant in the extreme, this work is noble... and necessary.
Sweet reprieve, until the next test is put before you.
Greater threats await those who dare.
In this weighty gloom, a spark.
We will see them again, I am sure of it.
In life or in death, we are all prisoners here.
For every miscalculation, a consequence.
The blood of the valorous and cowardly alike soaks this tainted soil.
Cowardice - a crude term for the science of self-preservation.
Recalculating one's odds is never a wasted endeavor.
Recognize your disadvantage, and accept it.
When myriad options align themselves against you, it is wise to desist.
In this world, wealth is worthless without purpose.
Scavenge what you can and be off once more.
An unexpected find...
Abandoned or forgotten - it is ours now.
In crisis, no gain is insignificant.
An impressive haul; put it to good use.
A fortune in memories long forgotten.
The wainwright awaits, eager to ply his trade.
An inkling of potency still lingers in some of these well-worn relics.
Amidst the spoils, an artifact of unparalleled power!
The means of mastery!
Experience, however painful, is the greatest teacher of all...
By confronting the past, we learn to face the future.
Push this half-made horror back into the void!
Loathing made manifest!
A parody of human outline - it must be destroyed!
Death has come to claim her elusive prize!
Death is manifest, and will suffer no abnegation.
The Pale Rider has tracked her quarry.
Denied once more, she retreats to some unknowable place...
What man is he who defies Death by sheer force of will?
The undying Flagellant escapes the scythe afresh...
The Antiquarian wants what we have and she will not be denied.
Once she had a sliver of decency, now only greed.
She searches the dying world for the keys to her own salvation.
The walker from beyond the stars - a shambling horror!
We tread beyond the realms of reason!
A star-spawned child of the infinite void!
At last - the veil begins to lift.
The shadow's advance has been halted - for a time.
Success, so long pursued, is rewarded only with creeping revelation.
Do not despair. There is nobility in the attempt.
Remain undeterred, and you may yet prevail.
Learn from each attempt. Deepen your understanding and victory will come.
Try and try again. You will break through this gloaming murk.
